blog: add authentication & authorization to LocalStack with the Authress Extension (#16)
localstack/localstack-blog.github.io: content/2024-01-21-add-authentication-authorization-to-localstack-with-the-authress-extension/index.md

---
title: Add authentication & authorization to LocalStack with the Authress Extension

> description: We are excited to announce the LocalStack Extension for Authress which enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service and operates on your local machine.

Reviewer: I agree this likely should be `Authress Extension for LocalStack` everywhere (even the `Authress (LocalStack) Extension` invites confusion)

> description: We are excited to announce the LocalStack Extension for Authress which enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service and operates on your local machine.

Reviewer 2: @HarshCasper changed it to `Authress Extension for LocalStack`

We still have a small inconsistency with capitalization (see nit comment below). I think `Authress extension for LocalStack` is clearer because it visually separates the two names but feel free to choose what fits best :)

lead: We are excited to announce the LocalStack Extension for Authress which enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service and operates on your local machine.
date: 2024-01-21T12:41:54+05:30
lastmod: 2024-01-21T12:41:54+05:30
images: []
contributors: ["Harsh Mishra", "Warren Parad"]

> tags: ['news']

Reviewer: There were some `tags` listed in the gdoc, are those meant to be copied here, or will they show up somewhere else? I didn't know what to put for the tags, so I just put some words, but I can imagine those tags might have to be canonical ones you have tracked in the LocalStack blog, or can they be anything?

Author: Yeah, our post tagging functionality isn't fully fleshed out yet. Right now, we just have three tags, but I can add tags such as "extensions" and "auth" over here 👍

Reviewer: Would it be something like this?

```suggestion
tags: ['news', 'auth', 'extensions']
```

---

## Introduction

The [LocalStack Extension for Authress](https://pypi.org/project/localstack-extension-authress/), our first [community extension](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/developing-extensions/), enables running Authress directly on your machine. It provides a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service, which bypasses the need to rely on the live version for local development.

> Ensuring your users can access your software while maintaining the privacy of their data and clean tenant separation is not a trivial challenge. It’s not just about supporting different login mechanisms and protecting the personal data included in the user identity. It is also about deciding who gets to access what as the users interact with the software. The logic to support all of this gets complex real quick, and that complexity further increases whenever your software supports different data access patterns, multiple user roles, or nested resource hierarchies.

Reviewer: (Sorry those were my words), Maybe I'll recommend this alternative:
```suggestion
Ensuring your users can access your software while maintaining the privacy of their data and clean tenant separation is not a trivial challenge. It’s not just about supporting different login mechanisms and protecting the personal data included in the user identity. It is also about deciding who gets to access what as the users interact with the software. The logic to support all of these security concerns gets complex real quick, and that complexity further increases whenever your software supports different data access patterns, multiple user roles, or nested resource hierarchies.
```

> Ensuring your users can access your software while maintaining the privacy of their data and clean tenant separation is not a trivial challenge. It’s not just about supporting different login mechanisms and protecting the personal data included in the user identity. It is also about deciding who gets to access what as the users interact with the software. The logic to support all of this gets complex real quick, and that complexity further increases whenever your software supports different data access patterns, multiple user roles, or nested resource hierarchies.

Reviewer 2: nice 👍

## Why run Authress as a LocalStack Extension?  
 
[LocalStack Extensions](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) allow you to customize LocalStack by starting custom services in the same container while leveraging the existing ecosystem & feature set. With Authress Local as an Extension, you now have an easier and faster way to setup user management and access control for your app in a local environment.

The LocalStack Extension for Authress replicates the Authress API, allowing you to integrate authentication & authorization directly into your locally running AWS applications. The Extension also allows you to jumpstart your development & testing workflows with Authress without an account. You can install the Extension using [LocalStack CLI](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/installation/#localstack-cli) or using the [Extensions Library](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/extensions-library/) on the [LocalStack Web Application](https://app.localstack.cloud/).

> ## How to use the LocalStack Extension for Authress

Reviewer 3: Could we maybe add a short section pointing to the actual extension implementation, sharing a few thoughts on the dev experience, lessons learned, etc..? Basically a short description of this repo: https://github.com/Authress/localstack-extension

Reviewer: Is this sort of what you were thinking about?

```suggestion

The [Authress extension](https://github.com/Authress/localstack-extension?tab=readme-ov-file) is loaded by the [LocalStack Extensions framework](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) directly into your LocalStack environment. It works by dynamically starting up and configuring the [Authress Local](https://github.com/Authress/authress-local?tab=readme-ov-file#authress-local) container. The locally running container provides a copy of the [Authress API](https://authress.io/app/#/api) directly in your development environment so that you can:

* **Authenticate users** and generate JWTs offline without having to log in.
* **Increase security** during development by verifying your authorization checks are correctly configured.
* **Validate SDK and API** usage to catch any early bugs with your integration.
* **Orchestrate complete integration tests** combining your identity and authorization infrastructure with your AWS infrastructure already provided by LocalStack.

## How to use the LocalStack Extension for Authress
```

In this section, we’ll run a basic application that emulates authentication, authorization, user identity and role management by running the LocalStack Extension for Authress. For this tutorial, you’ll need to have the following prerequisites installed on your local machine:

-   [LocalStack CLI](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/installation/#localstack-cli)  
-   [LocalStack Web Application account](https://app.localstack.cloud/sign-up)   
-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/current)

### Install the LocalStack Extension for Authress

> To install the extension, you can either use the LocalStack CLI or the Extensions Library on the LocalStack Web Application. To install the extension using the LocalStack CLI, start your LocalStack container, configure your [Auth Token](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/auth-token/) (`LOCALSTACK_AUTH_TOKEN`) as an environment variable and run the following command:

Author: I think we have already shared the link in the prerequisites

```bash

> localstack extensions install localstack-extension-authress

Reviewer 2: Extension installation is currently broken (in my environment 🤔 ; I posted in #sig-extensions), so I was not able to test these steps yet ...

Reviewer 2: fixed by cleaning the LocalStack volume on my machine 👍

└──────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┴──────────┴──────────────┘
```

Alternatively, you can navigate to the [Extensions Library on the LocalStack Web Application](https://app.localstack.cloud/extensions/library). The library allows the installation and management of Extensions as simple as the click of a button. Click on the **+ Install** button on the Web Application to install the extension on your local machine.

{{< img-simple src="localstack-extensions-library-authress.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the LocalStack Extensions Library showcasing the Authress Extension">}}

Irrespective of whether you use the CLI or the Extension Library to install the Extension, you will see the following in the LocalStack container logs:

```bash
2024-01-21T07:43:08.760  INFO --- [  MainThread] Authress                   : Starting up ghcr.io/authress/authress-local:latest as localstack-authress-af6bd0fc
2024-01-21T07:43:08.762  INFO --- [  MainThread] Authress                   : setting up proxy to http://localhost:8888
2024-01-21T07:43:09.778  INFO --- [e_proxy_job)] Authress                   : Authress API Started on: http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566
```

> The extension runs at `http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/`. You can now configure API calls to the authorization server by passing this URL as the Authress API URL.

Reviewer: @joe4dev I hesitate to link to an implementation because they could be anywhere. I also hesitate to link further down in the article, because that might invite unnecessary jumping around. Instead I add a suggestion to "In the following sections, we'll see just how to do that." What do you think of that?

```suggestion
The Authress extension runs at `http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/`. You can now configure API calls to the locally running authorization server specifying this URL as the `Authress API URL` in the Authress SDKs. In the following sections, we'll see just how to do that.
```

> The extension runs at `http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/`. You can now configure API calls to the authorization server by passing this URL as the Authress API URL.

Reviewer 2: much clearer formulation 👍
and it clarifies where to look for more information 👍👍

> ### Adding Authentication to your using Authress

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Adding Authentication to your Application using Authress
```

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/accounts/001/items/resource_001 
 -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImF1dGhyZXNzLWxvY2FsIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJsb2NhbGhvc3QiLCJleHAiOjE3MDU4NjIyMDIsImlhdCI6MTcwNTc3NTgwMiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo4ODg4Iiwic3ViIjoibWUifQ.bXGudtoYcEjohAWtJLeUgGWeh5PtbXIXNCVa4EEasjag8TqZaYfJA6MaUs3KA8owYKxm2wZTszRNx2Ayd-n_Cw"

200
{...}
```

### Conclusion

Congratulations! You’ve successfully added authentication and authorization to your running application on your machine. You can further explore Authress APIs and their cloud offering for various use cases such as:

-   Quickly adding user authentication to your application with an [Authress Login Box](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/authentication/user-authentication#login-configuration)
-   Adding authorization and [securing a Multitenant application architecture](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/articles/creating-a-multitenant-application#a-multitenant-application)
-   [Implementing signup and user onboarding flows](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/usage-guides/onboarding-users) for enterprise businesses
-   … and more!

> The Authress Extension for LocalStack makes it easy to manage and integrate authentication and authorization into locally-created cloud resources, and we hope to make your development process easier and faster!

Reviewer 3: Maybe we could add a short note at the bottom here that advertises LocalStack Extension in general, that we're building out the dev experience for extensions, adding new extensions in the near future, partnering with external providers to contribute extensions, etc..? 

I feel in general that the blog post does a great job at advertising the benefits of Authress, but falls a bit short in highlighting the benefits of the LocalStack Extensions platform.

Reviewer: Is there a standard CTA that is usually added, that we could throw in here? I just wrote something up but I'm sure you'll want something that feels more on brand:

```suggestion
The Authress Extension for LocalStack makes it easy to manage and integrate authentication and authorization into locally-created cloud resources, and we hope to make your development process easier and faster! And if you are interested in developing a [LocalStack Extension](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) to customize and extend your local development experience, check out our [Getting started guide for Extensions](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/getting-started/).
```

Author: @whummer Let us know your thoughts! 😄

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the update - looks like a great addition!

In general - I mostly wanted to provide some feedback/inputs in my last review, don't want to be the bottleneck here - feel free to merge and put it out there as you see fit! 👍

App Running on http://localhost:8080

*******************************************
Try hitting one of the existing endpoints: curl -XGET http://localhost:8080/accounts -H"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

Since this is an API based service, we can validate it works correctly, by making a call to one of the protected resources in this service. If you are using your own application service, choose one of the available endpoints there.

The [Authress Starter Kit for Express](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express) has user, account, and resource endpoints already available. Here you can test the resource endpoint. And to do that, we first need a valid access token. You can generate a valid access token in the [Authress Management Portal](https://authress.io/app/#/authress-local?focus=token-generation) or you can receive one from the Authress Extension.

To get an access token from the Authress Extension, run the following command:

```bash
curl -XPOST -d'{ }'
  http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/api/authentication
```

The result will be an access token within an JSON response:

```bash

> 200

Reviewer: Crud, I think I broke this suggestion, there seems to be a double `200` here. Removing one of them:

```suggestion
```

---
title: Add authentication & authorization to LocalStack with the Authress Extension
description: We are excited to announce the LocalStack Extension for Authress which enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service and operates on your local machine.

> lead: We are excited to announce the LocalStack Extension for Authress which enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service and operates on your local machine.

Reviewer: Is it possible to have markdown in here, curious whether or not we can move the whole section up here or if the links to need to be present somewhere else in the article.

Author: Let's keep the links in the main article itself 👍

Reviewer: :+1:

date: 2024-01-21T12:41:54+05:30
lastmod: 2024-01-21T12:41:54+05:30
images: []
contributors: ["Harsh Mishra", "Warren Parad"]
tags: ['news']
---

## Introduction

> We are excited to announce the [LocalStack Extension for Authress](https://pypi.org/project/localstack-extension-authress/), our first [community extension](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/developing-extensions/). It enables a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service that operates on your local machine. With this extension, you’ll get a development version of Authress running on your machine. This bypasses the need to rely on the live version for local development.

Reviewer: I didn't know the `lead` or `description` would end up above the intro section. That makes me think I should cut out some part of this so that all the content here isn't duplicated:

![image](https://github.com/localstack/localstack-blog.github.io/assets/5056218/3b3f7398-e341-4c31-8529-6eaf38732bcb)

What do you think?

Would it make sense to go with something like this instead?
```suggestion
The [LocalStack Extension for Authress](https://pypi.org/project/localstack-extension-authress/), our first [community extension](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/developing-extensions/), enables running Authress directly on your machine. It provides a high-fidelity, fully local authentication and authorization service, which bypasses the need to rely on the live version for local development.
```

Ensuring your users can access your software while maintaining the privacy of their data and clean tenant separation is not a trivial challenge. It’s not just about supporting different login mechanisms and protecting the personal data included in the user identity. It is also about deciding who gets to access what as the users interact with the software. The logic to support all of this gets complex real quick, and that complexity further increases whenever your software supports different data access patterns, multiple user roles, or nested resource hierarchies.
  

> Building an in-house authentication and authorization system may sound simple but it’s a task rife with problems that you may otherwise not need to face. These include complying with privacy regulations, ensuring high availability, and monitoring for security incidents - to name a few. And that’s before accounting for all the edge cases that come up as your software and user base evolves. Authress directly tackles these challenges by providing a simple yet powerful API you can integrate into your software to take care of all your auth needs, from login and identity aggregation, to access control and endpoint protection.

Reviewer: Added a common and threw in a link here.

```suggestion
Building an in-house authentication and authorization system may sound simple, but it’s a task rife with problems that you may otherwise not need to face. These include complying with privacy regulations, ensuring high availability, and monitoring for security incidents - to name a few. And that’s before accounting for all the edge cases that come up as your software and user base evolves. [Authress](https://authress.io) directly tackles these challenges by providing a simple yet powerful API you can integrate into your software to take care of all your auth needs, from login and identity aggregation, to access control and endpoint protection.
```

## What is Authress?

> [Authress](https://authress.com/) is a login and access control API that lets you add authentication and granular authorization rules to any software you’re building. It’s easy to integrate into your project thanks to many different language SDKs, or, if you’re brave, directly over the REST API.

Reviewer: Fix link target

```suggestion
[Authress](https://authress.io) is a login and access control API that lets you add authentication and granular authorization rules to any software you’re building. It’s easy to integrate into your project thanks to many different language SDKs, or, if you’re brave, directly over the REST API.
```

Authress simplifies your software development by taking care of the complexity surrounding authentication and authorization. You only need to worry about your core functionality, what login methods to offer and what kind of access restrictions you want to put in place. You don’t even need to design all the access rules up front - Authress is inherently flexible and lets you easily change the permission schemas as your software evolves. It’s also inherently modular - whether it’s only user login, permissions, machine-to-machine authentication, or the entire auth stack, you can choose which parts to use.

> Authress released [Authress Local](https://github.com/Authress/authress-local) in July 2023 to provide a local running version for integrating login, authentication, authorization, API keys, and enhanced security into your service's development & testing workflow. Authress Local mirrors the Authress Production API, enabling you to achieve a significant parity with the cloud service, and guaranteeing consistent performance when deployed in production.

Reviewer: Updating the link to the KB article.

```suggestion
Authress released [Authress Local](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/authress-local) in July 2023 to provide a local running version for integrating login, authentication, authorization, API keys, and enhanced security into your service's development & testing workflow. Authress Local mirrors the Authress Production API, enabling you to achieve a significant parity with the cloud service, and guaranteeing consistent performance when deployed in production.
```

## Why run Authress as a LocalStack Extension?  
 
[LocalStack Extensions](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) allow you to customize LocalStack by starting custom services in the same container while leveraging the existing ecosystem & feature set. With Authress Local as an Extension, you now have an easier and faster way to setup user management and access control for your app in a local environment.

The LocalStack Extension for Authress replicates the Authress API, allowing you to integrate authentication & authorization directly into your locally running AWS applications. The Extension also allows you to jumpstart your development & testing workflows with Authress without an account. You can install the Extension using [LocalStack CLI](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/installation/#localstack-cli) or using the [Extensions Library](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/extensions-library/) on the [LocalStack Web Application](https://app.localstack.cloud/).

> ## Why run Authress as a LocalStack Extension?  
>  
> [LocalStack Extensions](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) allow you to customize LocalStack by starting custom services in the same container while leveraging the existing ecosystem & feature set. With Authress Local as an Extension, you now have an easier and faster way to setup user management and access control for your app in a local environment.
> 
> The LocalStack Extension for Authress replicates the Authress API, allowing you to integrate authentication & authorization directly into your locally running AWS applications. The Extension also allows you to jumpstart your development & testing workflows with Authress without an account. You can install the Extension using [LocalStack CLI](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/installation/#localstack-cli) or using the [Extensions Library](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/extensions-library/) on the [LocalStack Web Application](https://app.localstack.cloud/).
> 

Reviewer: I think this section is duplicated, so it can be deleted.
```suggestion
```

{{< img-simple src="localstack-extensions-library-authress.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the LocalStack Extensions Library showcasing the Authress Extension">}}

Irrespective of whether you use the CLI or the Extension Library to install the Extension, you will see the following in the LocalStack container logs:

```bash
2024-01-21T07:43:08.760  INFO --- [  MainThread] Authress                   : Starting up ghcr.io/authress/authress-local:latest as localstack-authress-af6bd0fc
2024-01-21T07:43:08.762  INFO --- [  MainThread] Authress                   : setting up proxy to http://localhost:8888
2024-01-21T07:43:09.778  INFO --- [e_proxy_job)] Authress                   : Authress API Started on: http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566
```

The extension runs at `http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/`. You can now configure API calls to the authorization server by passing this URL as the Authress API URL.

### Adding Authentication to your using Authress

> Authress supports authentication and authorization. Here we’ll review how to configure one of the [Authress Starter kits](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/introduction/quick-start-guides) for authentication and authorization, however, if you already have an application you can use that instead. The application code is located in repositories on GitHub. 

Reviewer: I think I lost this link when I rewrote this section, I believe it makes sense to have it here.

```suggestion
Authress supports authentication and authorization. Here we’ll review how to configure one of the [Authress Starter kits](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/introduction/quick-start-guides) for authentication and authorization, however, if you already have an application you can use that instead. The application code is located in [repositories on GitHub](https://github.com/Authress/react-starter-kit?tab=readme-ov-file#authress-starter-kit-react). 
```

Below is a sample application that showcases a basic React example that uses Authress to log in (for other languages and frameworks, see the other [starter kits](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/introduction/quick-start-guides)). After logging in, you can navigate to the Authress protected page, which won’t be accessible to you unless you are logged in. Clone the repository onto your local developer machine with the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Authress/react-starter-kit.git 
```

After cloning the sample application, install the dependencies using the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

> You can open the sample application in VS Code or your favourite IDE. Now that you have the Authress LocalStack extension running, navigate to the `src/authressClient.tsx` file, and complete the Authress configuration.  Update the `authressLoginHostUrl` to point at the Authress LocalStack extension URL, in the following manner:
> 
> ```typescript
> loginClient = new LoginClient({
>     applicationId: 'app_default',
>     authressLoginHostUrl: 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566',

Reviewer: I used the wrong parameter name here, so this is just a quick change.

```suggestion
You can open the sample application in VS Code or your favourite IDE. Now that you have the Authress LocalStack extension running, navigate to the `src/authressClient.tsx` file, and complete the Authress configuration.  Update the `authressApiUrl` to point at the Authress LocalStack extension URL, in the following manner:

```typescript
loginClient = new LoginClient({
    applicationId: 'app_default',
    authressApiUrl: 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566',
```

  });
```

You can leave the rest of the configuration as it is, or make changes that suit your needs.  While using the extension with other language SDKs, you can pass the local Authress API URL as the `authressApiUrl` or the `authress_api_url` (depending on which SDK you are using).

### Running the Application

Navigate to the terminal and run the following command to start a local server:

```bash
npm run start
```

The application will now be available on [`http://localhost:8080/`](http://localhost:8080). You can open the URL on your browser, and you will see the following page.

{{< img-simple src="authress-react-starter-kit.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the Authress React Starter Kit">}}

You can try navigating to the protected page by clicking on the **Authress Protected Route Page**. You will immediately see a page remarking that you are not logged in, and the application has prevented you from accessing a protected page.

{{< img-simple src="you-are-not-logged-in.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the Authress React Starter Kit showing that you are not logged in">}}

> On the main page or in the navigation bar, you can now click on **Login**, and you will be immediately logged in and redirected to the main page. On this page, you can now see a valid user authentication session with the user profile highlighted Here you will notice, that because you are offline, there is no redirection to the authentication page. Once your app is deployed to production a customized login box will appear to complete the login process.

Reviewer: I think there was a missing period (probably my mistake from the doc review, sorry!)

```suggestion
On the main page or in the navigation bar, you can now click on **Login**, and you will be immediately logged in and redirected to the main page. On this page, you can now see a valid user authentication session with the user profile highlighted. Here, you will notice because you are offline, there is no redirection to the authentication page. Once your app is deployed to production a customized login box will appear to complete the login process.
```

Navigate to the LocalStack container logs to see the authentication APIs being triggered:

```bash
2024-01-10T09:01:10.725  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] localstack.request.http    : OPTIONS /api/authentication => 204
2024-01-10T09:01:10.793  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] localstack.request.http    : POST /api/authentication => 200
```

You can now click on the **Authress Protected Route Page** to see the protected page. 

{{< img-simple src="authress-logged-in-page.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the Authress React Starter Kit showing that you are now logged in">}}

### Adding Authorization to your application

> Above, we successfully added authentication user login to an application using the [Authress React Starter Kit](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=react). Additionally, Authress can also provide Authorization, access control, and api key management to web services as well as front-end UIs. That means we can use the Authress LocalStack Extension to enable offline authorization.

Reviewer: I don't know what I was trying to say there, but I think this is cleaner:

```suggestion
Above, we successfully added authentication and user login to an application using the [Authress React Starter Kit](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=react). Additionally, Authress can also provide authorization, access control, and api key management to web services. That means we can use the Authress LocalStack Extension to enable offline authorization.
```

> Here, we’ll see how that works by using the [Authress Starter Kit for Expres](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express)s. Alternatively, if you already have a running local application, you can add Authress authorization to that instead. For using the starter kit, clone the repository onto your local developer machine with the following command:

Reviewer: The markdown here was weird

```suggestion
Here, we’ll see how that works by using the [Authress Starter Kit for Express](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express). Alternatively, if you already have a running local application, you can add Authress authorization to that instead. For using the starter kit, clone the repository onto your local developer machine with the following command:
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Authress/express-starter-kit.git
```

After cloning the sample application, install the dependencies using the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

> As with the React application, the next step is to update the Authress configuration. Navigate to the `src/authressPermissionsWrapper.tsx`, and update the `authressDomain` to point at the Authress LocalStack extension URL.
> 
> ```typescript
> const serviceClientAccessKey = 'sc_c.0.acc.MC4CAQAwBQYDK2VwBCIEIALXnuHrzrj++Q54hCHI/GvULrovX9SNis8+rFKgEM2v';
> const authressDomain = 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the React application, the next step is to update the Authress configuration. Navigate to the `src/authressPermissionsWrapper.tsx`, and update the `authressApiUrl` to point at the Authress LocalStack extension URL.

```typescript
const serviceClientAccessKey = 'sc_c.0.acc.MC4CAQAwBQYDK2VwBCIEIALXnuHrzrj++Q54hCHI/GvULrovX9SNis8+rFKgEM2v';
const authressApiUrl = 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566';
```

```

Make sure to also update the `serviceClientAccessKey` to any valid key. The one shared above can be used.

### Testing your application authorization

Now that the service application is configured to use the Authress LocalStack Extension, you can start the service.
Navigate to the terminal and run the following command to start a local server:

```bash
npm run start
```

If the service starts correctly, you should see output from the local service:

```bash

> > nodemon src/index.ts

Reviewer: Wow, thanks for typing this all out, I should have just copy and pasted the output. Thank you.

[nodemon] 2.0.21
[nodemon] to restart at any time, enter `rs`
[nodemon] watching path(s): *.*
[nodemon] watching extensions: ts,js,json
[nodemon] starting `node --loader ts-node/esm src/index.ts`

> (node:26191) ExperimentalWarning: Custom ESM Loaders is an experimental feature. This feature could change at any time

Reviewer: Maybe I should remove that because it doesn't necessary help anyone.

```suggestion
```

(Use `node --trace-warnings ...` to show where the warning was created)
App Running on http://localhost:8080

*******************************************
Try hitting one of the existing endpoints: curl -XGET http://localhost:8080/accounts -H"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

Since this is an API based service, we can validate it works correctly, by making a call to one of the protected resources in this service. If you are using your own application service, choose one of the available endpoints there.

> [The Authress Starter Kit for Express](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express) has user, account, and resource endpoints already available. Here you can test the resource endpoint. And to do that we first need a valid access token. You can Authress via the UI to get a valid access token or you can receive one from the Authress Extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Authress Starter Kit for Express](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express) has user, account, and resource endpoints already available. Here you can test the resource endpoint. And to do that, we first need a valid access token. You can generate a valid access token in the [Authress Management Portal](https://authress.io/app/#/authress-local?focus=token-generation) or you can receive one from the Authress Extension.
```

To get an access token from the Authress Extension, run the following command:

```bash
curl -XPOST -d'{ }'
  http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/api/authentication
```

The result will be an access token within an JSON response:

```bash
200

> {"accessToken":"eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImF1dGhyZXNzLWxvY2FsIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJsb2NhbGhvc3QiLCJleHAiOjE3MDU4NjIzNjksImlhdCI6MTcwNTc3NTk2OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo4ODg4Iiwic3ViIjoibWUifQ.F_PiFTg7ir0bDhet_AVs6aeIxbBycXUso-J7sUA22iWK6p4pOUFoyMJTr6ZD_GCEQqI314WMmjllK9GZ9spTBQ"}

Reviewer: Would it make sense to maybe clean this up a little bit?

```suggestion
200
{
    "accessToken":
            "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImF1dGhyZXNzLWxvY2FsIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJsb2NhbGhvc3QiLCJleHAiOjE3MDU4NjIzNjksImlhdCI6MTcwNTc3NTk2OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo4ODg4Iiwic3ViIjoibWUifQ.F_PiFTg7ir0bDhet_AVs6aeIxbBycXUso-J7sUA22iWK6p4pOUFoyMJTr6ZD_GCEQqI314WMmjllK9GZ9spTBQ"
}```

```

> Copy out that access token and use it with the running application service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy out that access token and use it with the running application service:
```

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/accounts/001/items/resource_001 
 -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImF1dGhyZXNzLWxvY2FsIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJsb2NhbGhvc3QiLCJleHAiOjE3MDU4NjIyMDIsImlhdCI6MTcwNTc3NTgwMiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo4ODg4Iiwic3ViIjoibWUifQ.bXGudtoYcEjohAWtJLeUgGWeh5PtbXIXNCVa4EEasjag8TqZaYfJA6MaUs3KA8owYKxm2wZTszRNx2Ayd-n_Cw"

200
{...}
```

### Conclusion

> Congratulations! You’ve successfully added authentication and authorization to your running application on your machine You can further explore Authress APIs and their cloud offering for various use cases such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You’ve successfully added authentication and authorization to your running application on your machine. You can further explore Authress APIs and their cloud offering for various use cases such as:
```

### Adding Authentication to your Application using Authress

Authress supports authentication and authorization. Here we’ll review how to configure one of the [Authress Starter kits](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/introduction/quick-start-guides) for authentication and authorization, however, if you already have an application you can use that instead. The application code is located in [repositories on GitHub](https://github.com/Authress/react-starter-kit?tab=readme-ov-file#authress-starter-kit-react). 

Below is a sample application that showcases a basic React example that uses Authress to log in (for other languages and frameworks, see the other [starter kits](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/introduction/quick-start-guides)). After logging in, you can navigate to the Authress protected page, which won’t be accessible to you unless you are logged in. Clone the repository onto your local developer machine with the following command:

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/Authress/react-starter-kit.git 

Reviewer 2: missing `cd` for completeness (but that's hopefully obvious)

Reviewer 2: same for other sample

```

After cloning the sample application, install the dependencies using the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

You can open the sample application in VS Code or your favourite IDE. Now that you have the extension running, navigate to the `src/authressClient.tsx` file, and complete the Authress configuration.  Update the `authressApiUrl` to point at the extension URL, in the following manner:

```typescript
loginClient = new LoginClient({
    applicationId: 'app_default',
    authressApiUrl: 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566',
  });
```

You can leave the rest of the configuration as it is, or make changes that suit your needs.  While using the extension with other language SDKs, you can pass the local Authress API URL as the `authressApiUrl` or the `authress_api_url` (depending on which SDK you are using).

> ### Running the Application

Reviewer 2: Somewhere, we are missing a step to start LocalStack.

There is no visual feedback in the sample app (the console immediately reveals connection errors to LocalStack not running)

Reviewer 2: It is mentioned within the installation section above "start your LocalStack container" (I missed it by skimming because it is not mentioned as a separate command)

Navigate to the terminal and run the following command to start a local server:

```bash
npm run start
```

The application will now be available on [`http://localhost:8080/`](http://localhost:8080). You can open the URL on your browser, and you will see the following page.

{{< img-simple src="authress-react-starter-kit.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the Authress React Starter Kit">}}

You can try navigating to the protected page by clicking on the **Authress Protected Route Page**. You will immediately see a page remarking that you are not logged in, and the application has prevented you from accessing a protected page.

{{< img-simple src="you-are-not-logged-in.png" width=300 alt="A screenshot of the Authress React Starter Kit showing that you are not logged in">}}

> On the main page or in the navigation bar, you can now click on **Login**, and you will be immediately logged in and redirected to the main page. On this page, you can now see a valid user authentication session with the user profile highlighted. Here, you will notice because you are offline, there is no redirection to the authentication page. Once your app is deployed to production a customized login box will appear to complete the login process.

Reviewer 2: I'm getting CORS issues in the LocalStack logs (using Firefox 122.0 on macOS) when trying to Login:
```
hello world: localstack is running!
2024-02-01T14:17:56.532 DEBUG --- [-functhread2] Authress.ContainerServer   : Container '1aea298fe0ba8d454f05266f094fd4044d22b7a3c16d1ede900dda6f07cae442' created to run API.
2024-02-01T14:17:56.532 DEBUG --- [-functhread2] l.u.c.docker_sdk_client    : Starting container 1aea298fe0ba8d454f05266f094fd4044d22b7a3c16d1ede900dda6f07cae442
2024-02-01T14:17:58.110  INFO --- [e_proxy_job)] Authress                   : Authress API Started on: http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566
2024-02-01T14:18:01.413  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] l.aws.handlers.cors        : Blocked CORS request from forbidden origin http://localhost:8080
2024-02-01T14:18:01.450  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] l.aws.handlers.cors        : Blocked CORS request from forbidden origin http://localhost:8080
2024-02-01T14:18:01.499  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] l.aws.handlers.cors        : Blocked CORS request from forbidden origin http://localhost:8080
2024-02-01T14:18:01.568  INFO --- [   asgi_gw_0] l.aws.handlers.cors        : Blocked CORS request from forbidden origin http://localhost:8080
```

did I miss anything?

Author: Should be fixed now. Added an instruction to set `EXTRA_CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in the LocalStack startup.

Reviewer: Why is this necessary?

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Authress/express-starter-kit.git
```

After cloning the sample application, install the dependencies using the following command:

```bash
npm install
```

As with the React application, the next step is to update the Authress configuration. Navigate to the `src/authressPermissionsWrapper.tsx`, and update the `authressApiUrl` to point at the extension URL.

```typescript
const serviceClientAccessKey = 'sc_c.0.acc.MC4CAQAwBQYDK2VwBCIEIALXnuHrzrj++Q54hCHI/GvULrovX9SNis8+rFKgEM2v';
const authressApiUrl = 'http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566';
```

Make sure to also update the `serviceClientAccessKey` to any valid key. The one shared above can be used.

### Testing your application authorization

Now that the service application is configured to use the extension, you can start the service.
Navigate to the terminal and run the following command to start a local server:

```bash

> npm run start

Reviewer 2: I'm getting an import error:
```
throw new ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND(packageName, fileURLToPath(base));
        ^
CustomError: Cannot find package 'authress-sdk' imported from /Users/joe/Projects/LocalStack/issues/authress-localstack-extension/express-starter-kit/src/boilerplate.ts
```

It seems there is [authress-sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/authress-sdk) and [@authress/sdk](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@authress/sdk).

Fixing these two imports is required (assuming that the newer @ package is the way to go):
```js
# boilerplate.ts
import { UnauthorizedError } from "@authress/sdk";

# authressPermissionsWrapper.ts
import authress, { AuthressClient, ServiceClientTokenProvider, UserResources, UserIdentity, Connection, Tenant, UnauthorizedError, ApiError } from '@authress/sdk';
```

[nodemon] watching extensions: ts,js,json
[nodemon] starting `node --loader ts-node/esm src/index.ts`
(Use `node --trace-warnings ...` to show where the warning was created)
App Running on http://localhost:8080

*******************************************
Try hitting one of the existing endpoints: curl -XGET http://localhost:8080/accounts -H"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_TOKEN"
```

Since this is an API based service, we can validate it works correctly, by making a call to one of the protected resources in this service. If you are using your own application service, choose one of the available endpoints there.

The [Authress Starter Kit for Express](https://authress.io/knowledge-base/docs/SDKs/javascript?source=localstack&sdk=express) has user, account, and resource endpoints already available. Here you can test the resource endpoint. And to do that, we first need a valid access token. You can generate a valid access token in the [Authress Management Portal](https://authress.io/app/#/authress-local?focus=token-generation) or you can receive one from the Authress Extension.

To get an access token from the Authress Extension, run the following command:

```bash

> curl -XPOST -d'{ }'

Reviewer 2: add a `\` or ensure it's a one-liner

> curl -XPOST -d'{ }'

Reviewer 2: Getting an validation error:
<img width="1064" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-01 at 15 34 53" src="https://github.com/localstack/localstack-blog.github.io/assets/8161292/48d175cd-b2c2-46ce-b0ea-e83662311d62">

Reviewer 2: ```
curl -XPOST -d'{ }' http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/api/authentication
Couldn't parse body parameter AuthenticationRequest - doesn't match schema: expected value at line 1 column 1%
```

Reviewer: The original Authress Local container actually didn't allow for this, but has been since added. I don't know what the LocalStack recommended way for extensions containers to be cleaned out might be, but I'm guessing if you purge your docker image and container cache and restart the extension, this will work.

Reviewer 2: I'm using the latest image from 3 days ago `23f517cac9cb` and also tried to delete the docker image 🤔 

Managing updates of container-based extensions is a good point to think about 💭

Reviewer: The one from three days ago should be sufficient. The weird part is testing this directly using the underlying docker container (and attempting to reproduce the CORS issue you mentioned) both work directly. Something is happening when trying to convert these requests through the extension framework to the underlying container.

Is it possible there is some oddity with the extension framework that is affecting the body of this empty POST request and affecting the CORS request as well?

Reviewer 2: interesting 🤔 

I think @thrau can better answer the questions regarding the LocalStack Extensions framework and CORS when proxying requests through LocalStack.

  http://authress.localhost.localstack.cloud:4566/api/authentication
```

The result will be an access token within an JSON response:

```bash
200
{
    "accessToken":
            "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImF1dGhyZXNzLWxvY2FsIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJsb2NhbGhvc3QiLCJleHAiOjE3MDU4NjIzNjksImlhdCI6MTcwNTc3NTk2OSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo4ODg4Iiwic3ViIjoibWUifQ.F_PiFTg7ir0bDhet_AVs6aeIxbBycXUso-J7sUA22iWK6p4pOUFoyMJTr6ZD_GCEQqI314WMmjllK9GZ9spTBQ"

> }```

Reviewer: Extra block ending quote.

```suggestion
}
```
